High in this video I want to take a look at the time with model that we can use for timing code.
We saw how to time code earlier in the course we looked at decorators and we looked at a timing decorator
and that was pretty good because now we can just decorate a function and now we're automatically timing
every time that function is called.
Sometimes though we just want a time a specific chunk of code not necessarily even a function.
And so the timing module doesn't essentially the same thing.
And it has some advantages.
First of all it's going to be platform specific.
So it's going to find which platform you're on Windows or Linux for example and find the best way of
timing.
It's going to find you know the approach that has the best way of the best resolution in the time or
the best precision.
It's also going to turn off for example garbage collection to make sure that that is not a factor that's
you know coming into and possibly affecting the scores in the timings.
So it's got a few things like that.
The other thing too is that it can be called from the command line.
I'm not going to show you how to do that if you're interested in that.
Just go check the online docs and it's basically very similar to what we're doing here except you're
going to be invoking it from the command line.
So let's take a look at how we use it.
And here I'm going to import time it and I'm not going to import the whole time at Madill I'm going
to say from time it import the time it function which is a helper function that basically wraps most
of the functionality of the time a module.
So that's all I'm going to focus on.
And let's take a look at what the function requires to be called.
So the documentation is a little terse arm but let's go through this.
So time it is a function that needs a statement.
The statement is the code that's going to get timed that's going to get executed and timed and we pass
it as a string and it's basically just a python string it has to be a valid Python statement.
The next thing that we have before I look at these is the number.
This number indicates how many times it is going to repeat this test.
So it's very much like our time decorator where we had the number of times we wanted to repeat the call
to the function.
This is the same deal the return value from time it will be the total time taken.
It's not going to be the average per loop it's just the total time taken.
If you want to find the average divide by that number and then we have two other things that are important.
I'm going to skip the timer that really doesn't matter much.
So the set up is a piece of code again it's going to have to be a valid Python statement that gets executed
once before this statement is executed you know X number of times and Global's is a way for us to provide
a different namespace to time it when time it runs it creates its own namespace.
And so if we have variables or functions or even imports in our global module.
Right.
And Hix I mean the jeopard and overcome at the global level when I call time it it has no knowledge
of what's going on inside this notebook.
It is basically completely local to itself.
And so we can specify a global set of data basically to the time it function by passing it something
and we have our own Global's that we could use.
Right.
This is on global namespace.
We also have our local namespace which right here looks the same because while global and local is going
to be the same in this context because I'm in the model right now so local's is technically kind of
the same as goals from sort of function.
However local's is going to be local to the function and Global's will be the global at the module level.
And we've talked about scope before.
So that's all that is.
So let's go ahead and do the following.
I want to test two different ways of doing impuls.
Let me show you what I mean.
Let's say we have import math and I can say now math plus square root of 2.
That's one way of doing it.
Or I could say from math import a square root and then I can just call the code of 2 without using the
prefix.
You're right the module prefix.
So there's two ways of really doing the same thing.
Which is better.
Well it kind of depends.
Personally I prefer this method here because it is explicit.
If I have math of Eskew opti you know in some lounge code file and my import is all the way up the top
I don't have to scroll back to the top to see where the square root function came from.
I know it came from the math module.
Assuming of course that you didn't import some other module an alias that is math but that's something
that you would check once I guess.
This way here is implicit.
It's calling B s q and t function but which one while now I have to scroll back up to the top of the
file where your impulse should be located.
And I'll see that.
OK Square came from math.
So now I know where it came from and I can resume reading the code.
So I prefer explicit to implicit but sometimes if you've got long you know name spaces.
If you just don't want to type as much maybe you want to do something like this.
First if you're trying to do this and you're importing In all 15 functions from there are 15 elements
from the module.
I don't think you should be doing that.
You should be resorting to something like this.
But now the question that I really want to answer is is one faster than the other.
So let's go ahead and use time to test the socket.
So for full time IT remember we need a statement.
I'm going to use keyword arguments.
So for the statement I'm going to say math.
Dark square root of two.
Now the problem is remember what I said time it has its own scope.
So if I run this it's going to complain and we get the exception that math is not defined.
Well sure it doesn't know what math is.
Remember it's running inside its own namespace.
Math is not inside time it's name space by default.
We have to import it in our global namespace here.
So how are we going to tell time it to also important.
While the three ways of actually doing this and I'm going to show you the bad way first not so much
to show you how not to do it but really to show you that we can have multiple lines of code in the statement.
We could say impled math newline math a square root of two.
That's two lines right.
We could even potentially use a multi-line string that would work as well.
Right.
So I'm going to keep it this way.
So now let's run this.
And remember it's going to run this a million times.
OK.
So it ran and took 0.3 1 seconds to run this one million times.
But there's something bad about this beyond the readability factor.
There's also something else.
Remember this statement is being run a million times which means the import is also being run a million
times.
Sure.
It only really impuls the math module the first time it encounters it.
But then everything thereafter it's trying to re-import it.
So that's not efficient.
And now we're wasting time trying to test just this piece of code.
So what you really want to do in the statement is isolate exactly what you want to test.
Import is not what we want to test.
So we're going to take it out of you.
And instead we were going to use this setup statement and the set up is going to have import math that
will only get run once and then this statement is going to get run number of times.
For now let's go ahead and do that.
And remember the timing is 0 1 3 1.
And when we were on it.
Now we get 0.1 4.
So half the time.
So that was a pretty big save.
And now we're really just looking at the cost the timing of running this piece of code.
Now let's go ahead and do it the other way.
So I don't want the math and I'm going to say from math impled square root.
We're going to write it this way.
And there we go.
It ran.
Now you can see it ran marginally faster but it's really zero point zero four seconds over 10 million.
Oh sorry one million iterations it's not a big deal.
And you know depending on the style of code that you write and the way that you want to be explicit
or implicit You may prefer writing your code in one way versus the other.
Don't let this timing difference change your mind about how you should write your inputs do it the way
that you feel most comfortable with and that you feel is most expressive.
At this point if you're running code square roots hundreds of millions of times then sure then maybe
you need to stop worrying about this.
But again don't start optimizing code until you've identified that it's a bottleneck.
In this case even if I run a million times in my code throughout the life of my program does it make
any difference you know at four tenths of a second isn't going to make a difference.
Not going to break the bank.
So in this case I'm going to keep using import math and math to Squidoo to do it's more explicit.
I prefer that sometimes when I'm lazy I might do something like this.
But in production code usually I'll write it this way.
So now let me show you the third way in which we can pass this.
Import the global namespace that we have already contains it we've imported math inside our current
global namespace.
This put a notebook.
There is a nother parameter to time it.
So let me go ahead and say this math.
Dark square root of two.
And now what I'm going to do is I'm going to give time at the global namespace it's global namespace.
I'm going to provide it basically a starting point for its global namespace and I'm going to pass it
what I'm going to pass it.
My Global's so I'm going to take my Global's And if we look by the way at my Goebels we'll see that
the math module in Global's is true because I'm bored with it.
It's in there.
So now I can go ahead and pass Global's to Tynemouth and it's therefore going to find math inside it's
going to find that import inside Goebels now.
So I don't need to use the set.
And there we go.
But you can see it was pretty slow.
It's slow for it to go every time and look inside Goebels for something.
So instead if we'd set it up this way that's going to be far more efficient.
But I wanted to show you what happens now.
Goebels isn't only used you know for let's say avoiding using the set up with input.
Let's say that we define a variable inside this module here inside the Jupiter notebook.
So in August in our global namespace and I want to reference that variable inside the time statement
that we want to run for example let's try the following.
First I'm going to import random I'm going to use some random stuff and say l equals random dots choices.
I'm going to make a list of the characters in the string Python and I'm going to choose to make them
500.
I'm going to pick 500 random characters out of the list.
P Y T H O N K.
So that's my list.
Not going to print it out.
Got a lot of stuff.
But now I want to point out that L and Global's is true.
If I pick something else is and Global's either the final variable m it's not in there right.
So L is an Global's.
So now I want to time it.
I'm going to time how long it takes to pick a single random element from that list.
So a statement equals random dobbed choice.
And I'm going to use L.
Now of course it doesn't know what random is.
So I'm going to use that in my system when I say the end goal is random and now it doesn't know what
else is right so if I run it this way you'll see that we get this exception that name L is not defined.
Well yeah it doesn't know what it is.
Remember it's running this inside its own namespace.
So here what I'm going to do now is I'm going to provide it my Global's is to its Goebels.
OK now if we run this we'll see that it ran just fine.
So it found L and that Goebels and random Now of course it's not always Global's that we pass through
here.
Let's say that we're running inside a function.
So I have this like pick random and pick random is going to be nothing more than doing what I'm doing
here.
So I'm going to create this list.
OK.
And I'm going to call it something else I'm going to call it randoms.
And then here I'm going to take the same time at statement and instead sort of L of course I'm going
to give it randoms.
Now put this over multiple lines so we can see what's going on.
Well I'm going to do here.
I'm going to print is randoms in locals.
I want to know is it in my local's of my pick random.
So my pick random has a local namespace as a local scope.
That's the namespace.
You'll notice that randoms is not in Globus
because it was defined inside this method here.
So now let's go ahead and run.
Pick random and let's see what happens.
Well first of all we get true so random is in local's but then you'll notice that the time it itself
raised an exception as well random is not defined.
While sure we told it it's Goebels should be all Global's.
What's our Goebels.
It's this one right here.
Randoms is not in Goebels.
So instead of passing an Goebels what we really have to pass it here is locals.
OK.
So now if we do this and we run it it runs just fine.
Now we don't have an output because technically we do need to return it if we want to see what the timing
was.
So let's go ahead rerun this and I'll take that out.
We don't need this anymore.
Let's go ahead and run that.
And there we go.
It ran it and run it just fine.
OK we'll let's about it for the time it.
I do want to point out one other thing as well and that's what the statement what kind of reference.
Well if we pass it Goebels it can reference anything inside a global namespace would pass at local Zic
and reference anything inside the local namespace.
So let me do this let me say pick random and pick random is going to be slightly different.
It's going to take a list and it's just going to return random choice of the list.
So it's nothing more than a wrapper around the choice.
That's a stupid example but I just want to show you that I can actually reference pick random inside
my time statement so I can say time it's pick up statement type equals pick random l k and now in my
set up I'm going to say important.
You are not even going to do that.
Instead what I'm going to do I'm going to set the global scale equal to the Global's to my current goal.
So what is this going to afford me.
Well pick random is in my Global's dictionary right.
If I look at pick random is that in Legal's.
Sure it is.
So pick random isn't the Global's.
And by the same token by the way elde is also in Global's.
OK.
So now the spek random function is going to work correctly because it's going to find it in Global's
it's going to find L in Global's as well.
And of course it needs the random library.
It's going to find random in the Goebels as well.
So it's all going to work.
That's Dr..
And there you go.
It worked as well.
All right.
That's it for the time function.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.